These change factors reflect demand-supply imbalances and are intended to
reflect marginal changes in market share (as opposed to e.g. system
reconfiguration).

### Expatriation

This input reflects the percentage of admissions currently being treated
within the provider that are expected to be treated elsewhere in future, e.g.
because a nearby hospital is expected to increase their activity/capacity or
because the new hospital will no longer deliver that specialty.

For example, 100% means no change due to expatriation over the model horizon,
and 95% means 5% of current admissions would be 'expatriated' (treated
elsewhere). A value of 0% would expatriate all of that activity.

### Repatriation - Local
This input reflects the percentage increase on current admission levels to
account for patients that are within the local area but not currently being
treated by the provider, changing to be treated by the provider, e.g. because
previously the provider didn't have sufficient capacity but in future they are
expected to.

100% means no change over the model horizon. 105% means a 5% increase in
activity, sampled from all patient records in the baseline.

Here the local area is defined as the predominant ICB driving activity for the
provider.

### Repatriation - Non-Local

This input reflects the percentage increase in non-local admissions to account
for patients that are outside the local area and not currently being treated by
the provider, changing to be treated by the provider. 100% means no change over
the model horizon.

105% means a 5% increase in non-local admissions, sampled from patient records
for those currently being treated by the provider but come from outside the
local area. 

Here the local area is defined as the predominant ICB driving activity for the
provider.
